That's the context now in which we read.
He looks back on God's goodness
to him, and he looks forward
to the dangers and the hope.
The Lord stood by me, gave me strength
to proclaim the message fully.
All right.
For those of you who maybe haven't
been here since November, November
was the last time that we had been
in the book of second Timothy.
Uh, typically as a church, we, we
spent some time throughout the year
walking through books of the Bible.
Um, and this last year we were
choosing to do Second Timothy.
Um, and we got to Christmas
season and we wanted to be
able to do a Christmas series.
And then we kind of had some other
things, um, for this month that
we wanted to focus on before we
jump back into the Timothy series.
And so we'll be finishing,
um, uh, prayerfully.
We'll be finishing second
Timothy by the end of.
Um, but we're jumping back in, so don't
worry if you haven't been here, I'll try
to do the best I can to catch you up.
Uh, but we'll be in second Timothy
chapter three, uh, starting in
verse one and going through nine.
And, uh, we're gonna be talking
about this topic of avoiding those
who negatively influence you.
Um, and there's gonna be some
interesting things as we talk about this.
So let me, let me ask this question.
Let, let's, let's flip it here.
Who has been influenced
positively by somebody?
To really like help you become
the person you are today.
So who has been influenced positively
by someone to become who you are today?
Okay, so most of us would
say, yeah, that's me, right?
Like most of us have somebody,
like whenever I think back,
I think about teachers.
. I think about mentors.
I think about pastors, I think about
family members, uh, that have been a
part of helping me become who I am.
So that's an easy one.
Like a lot of us think of that, but
most of us may remember seasons in
our lives, and maybe you have one
currently, um, of there's been negative
influence in your life that has
negatively influenced you in a bad way.
Um, I wanna share this
quote with you by Jim Rom.
He says this, you're the average of the
five people you spend time with the.
And he goes on to say this.
He says, show me your friends
and I'll show you your future
when we look in this text today.
And so, you know, I'm not just
quoting all these other people
as though that's like biblical.
But what I'm saying is really this
guy's backing up what the Bible says.
As we look into today's text, we're
gonna see how Paul affirms that same
thing where he is gonna warn us as
he warned Timothy, to avoid people in
our lives who negatively influence us.
Um, and so lemme kind of catch
you up on where we've been so
that everybody can be on the same.
we covered two chapters
previously last year.
Um, and really second Timothy
is Paul's second letter.
That sounds logical, right?
Cause there was the first Timothy
Paul's second letter to Timothy, and
many believe this is his last letter
that he writes from prison before he.
Dies.
Uh, so this is a critical letter, and
as we think about this, Timothy was
kinda like Paul's, um, right hand man.
He was training him up and eventually
to probably replace him as a leader, uh,
in the, the, the church community here.
And so for Timothy, uh, this
would be a critical letter.
And so I don't know if you've ever
been, and again I'm not trying to get
emotional here with this, but if you've
ever been on the deathbed of someone,
typically their last words are some
of the most important words to you.
You're.
, you, you wanna hear those last words
and I think of that same thing.
And I really wanna encourage you as
we study through the rest of second
Timothy, for you to lean in in such
a way as though Paul the Apostle
is speaking to you on his deathbed.
These are critical words and if we
miss that, sometimes we'll just look at
them as just, uh, they're just words.
Cuz you guys know this.
We say a lot of words in a day.
But these words I think are critical
because they're at the end of his life.
So here's what Timothy was Challeng.
By Paul in the first two chapters.
The first thing that Paul
challenged Timothy was to
remember his faith and gift.
What we know about
Timothy, Timothy was timid.
Timothy was dealing with false teachers
who were giving pushback in his church.
He was the, uh, pastor of
Ephesus, is what most believed.
Um, and so he's getting this pushback.
And so Timothy, because of this pushback,
needed to be encouraged to remember.
Paul had laid hands on him and encouraged
him in his faith that his mother and his
grandmother had raised him up to know
Jesus and that he needed to remember his
faith and gift and to not get discouraged.
So that would encourage us as well
to remember our faith and gift.
We learned that Paul also invited
Timothy to join him in the suffering.
I remember that part of it.
That wasn't a fun one cuz we're
like, who wants to suffer?
But what we do realize is that when we
suffer for something good, it's worth.
I've never been pregnant, but
ladies, when you have a baby, there's
a lot of pain and you know it.
Um, but it's worth it from what I hear.
It's worth it on the other side.
So that suffering sometimes is difficult,
but it's worth it on the other side.
So we see this, that as Paul joined
him in the suffering, Paul says
to Timothy, gentleman suffering.
He's saying it's worth it because
there's people that will come to faith
in Christ and it's worth it for us.
Then he challenged Timothy and
us to train up others to take
the message of the gospel.
To the ends of the earth, basically.
Right?
He knew this, that Timothy could
only go so far by himself, but
together we can go further.
So he says, take men who will teach
other men about the truth of the gospel.
And, and so, you know, and
that day men were the leaders,
but ult ultimately he's seen.
People, all y'all, all of
us, let's take the message.
So let's train one another up.
So we should train one up, right?
We're better together.
Then he challenged Timothy to
confront the false teachers and to
avoid anything that would distract
him or his church from the mission.
I, I remember this quote, Craig.
Rochelle says this, the devil
doesn't need to destroy you,
he just needs to distract you.
The devil doesn't need to destroy
you, he just needs to distract you.
I'll just tell you this today.
We are a distracted.
and that is not absent in the church.
We are a church.
We are a church body as a, as a
whole that get easily distracted
from the mission because the enemy
is constantly working to distract us.
And then the last thing that we covered
before, we'll jump into verse three.
We covered this at the end of November.
Uh, he said this, do not miss
the opportunity to be used by
God as special instruments.
So he begins to describe these instruments
for good and these instruments for bad.
And ultimately, Paul was challenging
Timothy and us to understand that
God has given us the gift of the Holy
Spirit, the gift of salvation, to be
able to fulfill our purpose, to help
other people discover hope in Jesus.
That was our last challenge.
And so the cool part with that, like
that last challenge was like a, a man.
This is.
. But the next thing that we're gonna
see here is where Paul starts off
this chapter by saying, but know this.
Here's what he's basically saying.
Beware of what is coming.
So let's jump in the text.
Let's read together again.
Second Timothy chapter
three, starting in verse one.
Here's what it says.
It says, but know this hard times
will come in the last days for
people will be lovers of self and
lovers of money, and boastful and
proud and demeaning and disobedient.
To parents.
Ungrateful and unholy.
Unloving and irre.
Reconcilable.
Slanderers without self-control, brutal
without love, for what is good, traitors,
reckless, conceited, lovers of pleasure
rather than lovers of God holding to the
form of godliness, but denying its power.
He says, avoid these people.
For, among them are those who worm their
way into households and deceive gullible
women who over are overwhelmed by sins
and led astray by very a variety of
passions, always learning and never able
to come to the knowledge of the truth
just as Janus and jam resisted Moses.
So these also resist the truth.
They are men who are corrupt in mine.
Worthless in regard to the faith.
, but they will not make further
progress for their foolishness.
We'll be clear to all, as was the
foolishness of Janus and chambers.
Let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we thank
you Lord for your word.
We know it's truth and we are praying it
over our lives, Lord, that we take from
it today and we learn and then we apply
to our lives to go out and live in such
a way that honors you and helps us live
the lives that you called us to live.
We pray this in Jesus name.
Amen.
So, um, What is so challenging in
this statement is the first thing
he says, his hard times will come.
Does anybody wake up and hear
that statement and go, yay.
I mean, you know this like Mondays,
sometimes Mondays are hard days cuz you
know you have a lot of work going on.
and you are like, yay.
Like, this is awesome.
No, usually you're dreading him
so many times we have to kind
of prepare our hearts for this.
And so he's trying to prepare Timothy
in the church for these last days.
Um, and so he says this, know
this hard times will come.
And I want you to know this for
yourself, for you personally.
And the same thing for Timothy when
God is doing something good in your
life or is about to do something
good in your life, know this.
Tough times are ahead.
Why?
Because there is an enemy that is
trying to still kill and destroy
what God is doing in your life,
what God is doing around you.
And so because of that, if we're going
to experience anything good, right?
It's going to be hard.
Think about this.
If you just think about your marriage,
if you have a marriage, marriage is hard.
I love my wife.
It's not hard every day, but it's hard.
But because I know that I'm
prepared, Here's the other thing.
A good meal is hard to cook.
Moms, dads who cook, yeah, you get it.
It's hard, but it's good on the other
side, so it's worth the hard effort.
I would say this, it's
hard to plan a church.
Been in the midst of it.
It's hard to plan a church, but it
is worth it because we understand
that the enemy's trying to deceive
us in the midst of this hard.
And God wants to do something great.
And this is what reminds me of James
chapter one, verse two and three,
where he says, consider it great joy.
My brothers and sisters, whenever
you experience various trials,
because you know the testing of
your faith produces endurance.
These various trials is basically
saying, you know, you're gonna
experience hard trials, not if,
but when you experience hard times.
And we need to remember that, that God
is going to try to continue to work
through you, even in these difficult
times, to grow you and change you.
And, and, and when we think about
this, this, this contrast between
Paul's last message of like, man, you
are instruments used for God's glory.
Go out and live in such a way.
And then he says, but, but
be prepared for hard times.
Sometimes that is difficult
because don't we want life to be.
Anybody, maybe you like life, heart easy.
I mean, you like heart, life hard.
If you do praise God for you.
Okay.
Um, I, I, I'm not that person, but
he mentions this word in the last
days, and this is a critical time.
What does it mean by in the last days?
Well, what Paul is really speaking to
is in the last days started when Jesus
came to this earth, lived a sinless life,
died on the cross for our sins and rose.
To spend eternity in heaven with his
father in our place so that we could
one day have a relationship with him.
Those end times have started
now, and so Paul knew Timothy was
in the midst of the end times.
We are in the midst of the end
times, still 2000 years later.
. So if you thought that, you know,
it was gonna be easy as a Christian,
maybe you came to the wrong church
to, to, to, to miss that idea.
But when we studied the Bible, the
Bible tells us it will be hard,
but God is going to continue to
do great things in our lives, even
though those hard things are there.
So I, I wanna just challenge
you with this statement.
This is why Paul says this.
Know that there's gonna be hard times,
it is easier to prepare for the hard
times than to respond to the hard times.
Does anybody understand what that.
It's easier to prepare for the
hard times than to respond.
Great example.
You ever been out and your tire go flat?
You don't have a spare?
Done it before.
Okay.
That's difficult.
But when we make sure we have the spare
and it's actually aired up when we make
sure we have, you know, the, the towing
service on your insurance, we're prepared.
It's a lot easier to
deal with the hard times.
See, Paul is telling Timothy, let's.
Paul is telling us as a
church, let's prepare.
Let's prepare.
Let's be aware of the hard times, right?
And so as James one says this, God
desires for us to come out stronger
on the other side of these hard
times, not just make it through.
I wanna be as critical as I can
with this, cuz I think it's so
important for you and for me.
When we go through these hard times,
don't just hold your breath through them.
God wants you to grow.
So on the other side of these
hard times, you are strong.
You are stronger.
I'll, I'll just tell you this, I
am crazy, but I love to work out.
But do you know whenever I work
out hard and Wesa know this, I
was dead yesterday and on Friday
when I was working out just dead.
But you wanna know, I do that when
I enjoy it, but I don't wanna get
stronger because if I was gonna
get weaker, why would I do that?
I mean, it'd be stupid.
Now you guys still may think
I'm stupid, but I love that.
Right?
But I know I'm gonna get
stronger, so I enjoy it.
So for me, When we think about
trials, when we think about
hard times, it's so important.
We want to come out stronger
as we go through them, right?
So what will be so hard?
That's what Paul, we're gonna answer
a lot of questions in this text.
What will be so hard?
Here's basically the statement.
What's gonna be so hard is
we have to deal with people.
Yay.
You know, I heard this statement
once, ministry would be easy if we
didn't have to deal with people,
but then we wouldn't have people.
So anyways, um, it, it's
this idea, I think at times.
Um, we want people to be like us because
we think it would be easier, but if
it they were like us, then we would
probably still be annoyed with us too.
And that, that's the tough part.
So we have to do life with people and
so that's what he begins to describe
here is these different people.
Right?
He gives 18 different characteristics
of different people here.
But I wanna make sure we don't get
ahead of ourselves because this is,
when I read this text, let me just tell
you what a typical church member does.
They read this text and they
go, man, I can't believe there's
people out there like that.
Those people are so horrible.
How dare they, man, I'm
gonna stay away from them.
They're horrible people and I begin
to separate myself as though they're
just so bad and, and we're so good.
Can, can I just challenge you today
to take down your pride me include.
Let's read this and
here's, here's my prayer.
As the Lord reveals that this
may be you, may he convict you to
repentance and draw you to repentance.
Repentance is is a beautiful thing.
It's not punishment,
it's actually freedom.
I'm gonna say that again.
Repentance is a beautiful thing.
It's not punishment, it's
freedom from our sins.
So as you read this today, as you
study this today with me, if you
see something in your life, I pray
that you repent and turn from it.
, I pray that I repent and turn
from it today because we will
be better on the other side.
So let's look at this again.
I wanna make sure we don't just,
because here, here's the thing.
We know when we start pointing fingers,
I started looking at this last night.
There's three pointing back at us.
I thought four.
But this one's pointing forward too.
But when we start pointing fingers,
there's three pointing back at us.
So we had to remember to a look at
ourselves first before we go to others.
So let's look at this big list and we're
gonna walk through it pretty quickly.
So he mentions here for
people will be lovers of self.
What does that mean?
Selfish only thinking of themselves.
And so, you know, everything will
be based upon this one statement.
Lovers of self, right?
Next, lovers of money, which means
they'll covet and worship it as
though it controls their happiness.
Number three, boastful.
Which means that they'll be
flaunting what they have and they'll
be boasting about their achieve.
Number four, proud.
They'll be showing one self above others.
I love this and I say I love this.
In this definition, not
I love this idea, right?
Um, with an overwhelming estimate of
one's means or merits, despising others.
So sometimes we're proud, but in
being proud, we really despise
others in the midst of it, and we
don't even realize that demeaning,
which means to speak evil things.
One who was slanderous or abusive.
Disobedience to parents.
Every parent probably says Amen.
Okay, disobedience to parents,
this can speak to adults.
We've done this before in another
text that we've covered, but, uh,
basically ignoring parents' direction,
not respecting their authority
or their position in their lives.
Ungrateful, never satisfied
with what they have, and never
thankful for God or others.
We're only on number eight.
There's 18 characteristics here.
It's crazy.
He wanted, he wanted to make
sure we didn't miss anything.
Uh, number eight, unholy.
So I had kinda look at this.
I knew what holy was, holy
is to be set apart, to become
more and more like Christ.
So what it is, unholy, unholy, is to
be set apart, to wickedness, to become
more and more like the devil, the enemy.
That, that, that's.
Unloving, and there's
another word for this.
As we begin to study other
translations, unloving or without
natural affection, it's one
obviously who doesn't love someone?
And here was another definition.
This person will be called inhuman to not
love, to not have a natural affection.
Ear reconcile, reconcilable,
unwilling to reconcile with.
Or with situations, which again goes
about back to the selfish mentality.
Slanders, people who would
accuse someone falsely.
Some translations would even change
this word, slanders into devil or
devilish, um, without self-control,
which means this, do what I feel like
whatever I want, doesn't matter who it
affects, doesn't matter what God thinks.
I'll just do whatever I think
brutal, which means violent or
uncontrolled in their actions.
I'm getting closer guys.
I promise I'm getting closer.
Let's just keep.
without love for what is good.
Here's the thing.
They don't only oppose what's good.
They oppose what's good for you.
They don't even like when you have
good traitors people who are willing to
betray those closest to them, reckless
acting without thinking or caring about
the consequences of their actions.
Conceded to think of oneself.
Too highly prideful.
Looking down on others.
And the last one, lovers of pleasure
rather than lovers of God, choosing
what feels good, tastes good, what
makes them happy, rather than loving
God and his plan for their life.
Wow, that's an exhaustive list.
I believe that Paul wrote down these 18.
He probably had another 18 on
him, but he figured he would stop
them because they are well-rounded
on this idea of the first.
Lovers of self when we think
about that word, lovers of self.
Think about this.
God calls us to love him and
to love others as ourself, but
if we love ourselves the most,
we will not love God or people.
Let me say that again.
God calls us to love him and to
love others as ourselves, but if
we love ourselves most, then we
will not love God or love other.
. Warren Weby says it this way.
In the universe, there is God, and
there are people and there are things,
and we should worship God, love
people and use things, but hear this.
But if we start worshiping
ourselves, we'll ignore God.
We'll start loving things
and we'll start using people.
Man that hit home with me.
You wanna know why?
Cause times I'm selfish.
Straight up.
Your pastor is selfish at times.
And this is like man.
But I love God, and that's
where conviction comes in.
This is where repentance is beautiful
because in those moments when God
convicts me and I repent and I
turn, there's something beautiful,
God's true design relationship with
him and the freedom from that sin.
He goes on to say this.
This is Warren weird.
He goes on to say this, this formula
of, again, loving self, ignoring
God and using people, right?
This formula is miserable life, yet
it characterizes many people today.
So basically saying this, that people
begin to place themselves in God's
position and begin to place God
second or not even in the running.
But here's the shocker guys, and I, I
really, I, I want us to hear this and I
wanna make sure I clearly preach this.
This is the tough part.
You're ready for this one?
Verse five.
These people hold to the form of
godliness, but deny its power.
Let me translate to
you this, these people.
Who do these things hold the
form of following Jesus, but
yet deny their his works.
You know, that was the hardest verse
because it would be easy for me as
a follower of Jesus for him to say,
and these people do not know Jesus.
Never f like they, they've
never been around Jesus.
This is just who they are and
they need people to love them
and share Jesus with them.
No, these are people that he
would almost say are in the.
That are, that are living the religious
life that would claim to be religious
or faithful in faith, but are denying
God's power and living in the flesh.
That's a tough, tough thing to hear, but
even we can get trapped and living the
life that God does not have design for us.
Here's the cool part, God.
. God is not kicking you out.
God is not turning you away.
God loves you.
And we're gonna talk a little
bit more about this, and
this is the tough part here.
He says, to avoid these people, somebody,
somebody gonna ask the same question
I asked, isn't that un-Christian?
Like, did anybody think that?
That was the first question I had.
I mean, if, if, if we avoid the people
that are living in sin, especially
those who know God or claim to know.
Isn't that a bad thing?
Is Paul speaking against
what Jesus would say?
No.
Praise God.
I'm glad we can clarify that one.
Let's, let's talk about this.
We have to look back and
I, I'm gonna quote again.
This is, I want you to understand this.
I'm quoting somebody that is
non-biblical, but it's affirming
what Paul is saying here.
If we go back to this quote of
Jim Rohm, he says, show me your
friends and I'll show you your.
If we spend time and time and time
and invest our lives around people
who are constant living in disregard
to God's will for their life in
sin, tell me what will happen.
Somebody you're do the same thing.
So it's not that you don't love
them, but it's that you love Jesus.
And the effect that that
person can have on your life.
And it doesn't mean that you do
not have a relationship with them.
And the fact of, of knowing them and
continuing to preach Jesus and to share
it in truth, but these would typically
be people that you have already spent
time with, shared the truth with.
They're choosing not to repent and
move forward and changing their lives,
and because of that rejection, you've
chose to now say, I'm still here
anytime you need me, but I need to
be here and I need to follow Jesus.
To be able to live the life
that God's called me to live.
And not in a way that's saying, I
don't love you, or Jesus doesn't.
He does, and I'm here at any moment you
need, but I cannot spend my days and my
nights consistently being around someone
who is living outside of God's will
that even claims to be in God's will.
That is, I'm telling you, it's
a tough conversation that you
may have to have with somebody.
I know this stuff is difficult.
But we know that if we do spend
time with them, we'll be sucked
into those same patterns.
So lemme give you some examples.
If you hang around negative people
too long, what do you become negative?
Let's go to the second one.
If you hang around people that are not
speaking wisely, so cussing probably
sexual things that shouldn't be said,
what what's gonna tend to happen?
Anybody?
You're gonna tend to
say those same things.
You're gonna talk about those same things.
Let, let's just go a little bit more.
If you hang around people who
are lovers of self too long,
what do you become selfish.
Here's the thing.
I don't know if you've even not in my
last year, I've had some different groups
of people because as I continue to be
more and more out in the community,
the more and more time I spend with the
people in the community and those that
are far from God and those that are
close to God, there's times where I've
had to separate myself and not because I
don't love them, I'm still around them.
I still see them, but I don't
spend as much time with them.
Dedicated time when they're
discussing or living in such a way
that would be dishonoring to God.
Because it has influenced me, because
it's influenced the way that I think,
because at times I've become greedy.
Oh, even your pastor becomes greedy.
Yeah.
Why?
Because they were greedy and, and again,
this is not me just like, oh, you sinner.
This is me.
Even speaking truth to them saying, Hey
guys, like I don't need to be greeting.
We shouldn't be greed.
You're trying to speak life.
And if the life's not being received
at that moment,  again, telling
them that they're bad people,
that you don't ever love them.
It's just trying to, to live in such a way
that, again, would honor God and benefit
yourself and your calling in your life.
So here's what Paul's basically saying.
Hard times will come to us because
of the sinfulness around us that can
influence us so much that we dishonor
Christ and is calling in our lives.
We need to know that.
And the lives of those around us
will be influenced if we continue
to allow these influences happen.
Our family, our friends, those who
don't know Christ, I would say this.
If we continue to surround ourselves
with influences that don't honor
God, we are playing with fire.
Some of you are pyros that doesn't maybe
land with you, but you understand this.
My grandma was that and
she set our field on fire.
My grandpa's, you know, 30 acre field.
And it's a bad thing
because that could happen.
But we think we have it under
control because I didn't, you
know, this is what happens.
I know you guys, Kari can't see these
lines when it comes to a sinful life.
You know what we like to do?
Can I get my foot as close
as I can to that line?
Is that sin?
Can somebody confirm the citizens of sin?
Because if this isn't sin,
I'm gonna hang out here.
That that's what we wanna do.
And I'm just telling you why even
tempt yourself, why even do that?
So we're gonna continue to go on here.
How did these sinful people.
People in Paul's day, and I'm gonna try
to be a little bit quicker with this
because you're probably gonna see these
in verses six and seven and go, this
doesn't really make sense to maybe us.
So he sit here in verses six and seven,
he says, for among them are those who
worm their way into households and
deceive, gullible women, overwhelmed
by sins and are led astray by a variety
of passions, always learning and never
able to come to the knowledge of truth.
So in Paul's day, we see these women
who were struggling in their sin.
And here's the thing that I think is so,
They were desiring to live pure lives.
It says this, that they were trained
to always learn, they were pursuing
truth, but they invited these men into
their lives that were not a positive
influence, and these men distracted
them away from overcoming their sin.
They allowed someone into their life that
was not godly, maybe had the perception
of godliness, and it stopped them.
It pre prevented them from overcoming.
What was the knowledge of truth that
they were stopping them from, right?
That they could actually live out
their faith and overcome their sin.
I I, I think sometimes, again, as a
church, and this is something even in
my own life, we can get so caught up
in coming to church and hearing the
truth and feeling spiritual enough just
with having the truth, but that was
these ladies, they heard the truth.
They knew they could overcome their sins.
They had the truth, but they could
never overcome by living out the.
By repenting of their sense
and moving on from it.
And Paul says, avoid these people
because this is the influence that
they've had in the church and, and
how they've influenced other people.
So again, if we put it another way,
coming to church on Sunday and enjoying
the message is easy, but putting the
message into practice is difficult.
When he says, these hard times are
coming, the hard times are coming
to actually live out our faith.
Y'all, I, I, I wanna be.
I think more direct than I
probably have been in a long time.
We cannot just claim a faith
in Jesus and sit and think it's
just gonna grow and flourish.
Life's, you know, you're gonna fall
after God easily just sitting back.
No, you have to.
You have to work at it.
It's the same thing with marriage.
You can't just say, I do it the
alter and sit back and not work.
And not pursue your spouse
because it will never work.
We'll end up wandering,
we'll end up being deceived.
So it's difficult to do this
because there's people all around
us trying to deceive us and
make us feel bad for our faith.
I think that's the problem in the church
is we, we go out into the world and as
we get around the world or we get around
other believers, they begin to say this
and they'll say, so why do you care?
Like studying your Bible every day?
Like what does it really matter?
I mean, God, you're saved.
Why does it matter if you Ms.
Church the next six Sundays?
I mean, you're still saved.
You're good.
I mean, what does it matter that you pray?
I mean, God's gonna do whatever
he wants to do because we place
ourselves around people that begin
to now negatively influence us.
And, and, and so, you know, in my heart,
I'm a people pleaser and maybe you're not.
So I get around people and they start
telling me that, and it's almost
like, I just wanna please them.
So I'll, I'll do the right.
Okay, I'll do what you say.
Yeah, I'll miss that.
And it's so difficult, and
Matthew seven tells us this.
Matthew seven 13 and 14 says this
inter through the narrow gate for the
gate is wide and the road is broad.
That leads to destruction.
There are many that will go through it.
How narrow is the gate and difficult
is the road that leads to life.
Few will find it.
It is hard sometimes to reject sometimes
the outside noise that's telling you,
don't fall after Jesus like that.
Don't live a faithful life like that.
No, it's okay to sin in
this way cuz you know God.
That's why Jesus died on the
cross so he could forgive you sin.
So the more you sin, the
more he gets to forgive you.
Isn't that what?
Isn't that the plan?
No.
The plan is actually to forgive you and
change you so that you don't need sin.
You don't need to pursue those.
So, lemme just give you a couple
examples as we move forward here.
When I first became a follower of
Jesus, me and Brittany were just now
starting to get involved into a church.
And after we gave our life to
Jesus, we started attending
church even on Sunday nights.
Crazy, crazy.
We did it then.
We wanted to go on Wednesday
nights too, and we wanted to go
to small group at nine o'clock.
But you know what ended up happening?
The friends group of friends that we
were around, uh, we hung out with 'em on
Fridays and Saturday nights, and you guys
know what happens on Fridays and Saturday.
We stay up too late and we probably do
things we probably shouldn't do, but we
would try to hang out with these group
of friends and we just found that it was
negatively influencing our lives because
our passion, our desire was to know Jesus
and to live like Jesus and, and we were
still friends with them, but we had to
separate ourselves from those places.
I remember when we started going to
church consistently on Sunday morning.
You know what Sunday mornings were when
we actually got family together at home.
We got family together on Sunday
mornings and we started telling 'em,
no, we're gonna go to church first.
And that bothered them.
Well, that's family time.
Can't you dismiss one Sunday?
Can't you dismiss this Sunday?
I remember that was when we went to
play golf with my grandpa, my brother.
Can't you dismiss one Sunday for golf?
I could, and I'm not saying golf's
bad, but I'm like, can we go at.
Can we go at one?
Can I come over at one?
And that was a difficult
transition for some.
And you may think that sounds very
religious and what you're, no.
My commitment was to grow in my faith
and I had to say no to things that were
people who were influential in my life.
I remember when I gave my life to
Christ and then I started to ministry.
And my boss, this is what he
basically told me, you're foolish.
You're foolish for wanting
to, to surrender your life to
ministry and quit this job.
And I'm.
All right, here's my two weeks.
I'm, I'm going like, I mean, it's tough.
It's gonna be hard, but we all will
have those instances where somebody
will try to negatively influence
us, but we have to push back.
Here's what I believe and I
hope that you believe as well.
For me and Brittany in that season,
we believe and have now experienced
that God's ways are not restrictions
from enjoying life and having.
No, they were an open door to
experience freedom and what we were
truly designed for, and it is so
much better than what we left behind.
I'm gonna say this again because I
want you to hear this so many times.
You say, well, all you're
saying is just say, no sin.
You're just telling me not to do all
these fun things that just make me feel
good and the things I really enjoyed.
No, no, no, no, no.
You're missing God's best.
I'm gonna say this again.
We believe this is something me and
and Brittany have experienced, we
believe and have now experienced
that God's ways are not restrictions
from enjoying life and having.
No, they were an open door to
experience freedom and what we truly
were designed for, and it was so
much better than what we left behind.
Someone needs to hear this, and
I, I, I, I don't know who it is.
I wrote this in my notes.
Somebody needs to hear this.
Stop.
Stop it.
Stop trying to please someone else.
There's one person that you were the
police and that is the Lord Jesus.
Stop it.
Oh man.
Like maybe that frees you.
That frees me.
That means whenever I go out and
the influences around, I don't care
because God has something greater.
God has something greater.
So Paul's saying, stop letting people
negatively influence your life.
Stop allowing them to control you
and the relationship with Christ.
And so I wanna quickly finish this up
cuz I know I'm running outta time here.
So who were these people that were leading
the charge of destruction in Paul's day?
He doesn't name them, but he gives
some people, he compares them against.
He compares them against
two people in Moses name.
When you begin to study about this,
most believe as you begin to study
a little bit about the history and
tradition that Janus and Jammers
were actually the magicians who.
With Paul or not Paul, with, with Moses
and Aaron, when they would cast down
the, the staff and it would turn into a
snake and then magicians would cast down
a staff and then there would be a snake.
And it was always funny cuz then
Moses' snake and ate theirs.
And that was kinda funny.
But then they turned water into blood
and you know, Moses turned water into
blood and like they kept duplicating, but
at some point they couldn't duplicate.
What were they doing?
They were imitating truth.
They were imitating.
So Paul begins to characterize these
men that were deceiving in the church
as imitators, and they resisted the
truth, he says, because they were
corrupt in mind and have become worthless
in their faith to be used by God.
So what happened to them?
Here's what we do know, the enemy, Satan,
as you begin to go back into Genesis, the
enemy, Satan is an imitator, he's a liar.
And so he begins to deceive people.
Who have a form of godliness
to spread half truths.
And I say half truths because
they seem godly, but what they
are preaching is not Christ.
They're not preaching repentance.
They're not preaching salvation
the way that God is designed.
So as for Janus and Jamas,
they were finally exposed.
And so were the leaders in Paul's
day, and so will the leaders and
those who are doing that today.
And it's just this statement,
your sin will catch up.
Your sin will catch up to you.
In my days before my life in
Christ, and when I came to my life
to Christ, I thought all my sins
were forgiven, which they were.
But do you know, after I gave my life
to Christ, that I went through a season
of a couple of years of dealing with
the consequences of my sins from the
years before, your sins will catch up
to you, and they're not to punish you.
They're to free you because when
forgiveness happens, oh, . I'll
just tell you on the other side of
forgiveness, on the other side of
freedom, of, of hatred, and un oh
man, like my life changed so much.
Galatians 67 38 says this before we
go into our, just finishing up here.
He says this, don't be deceived.
God is not mocked for whatever person.
Sos, he also will reap because
the one who sows to his flesh will
reap destruction from the flesh,
but the one who sows to the spirit
will reap eternal life from the.
Here's what we know every single day.
You and me are being influenced
negatively and positively.
So I continue to affirm this, and
you're not hearing this wrong.
God is not saying, don't be around people
that are sinners, because guess what?
We wouldn't be able to
be around ourselves.
What God is saying is that if you've
been around those people, And you've
continued to pour into them and try to
live your light out around them, and
they're rejecting truth and they're
beginning to influence you negatively.
You need to separate yourself
for your good and for theirs.
Here's what I'll tell you.
You can't reach somebody by
joining them in their sin.
You can reach somebody by being redeemed
for forgiven and broken through, broken
free from that sin so that they can
see, oh man, maybe that could be me.
But you can still love them.
You can still support them.
You can pray for them, you can still
encourage them, you can still be around
them, but you cannot allow them in the
area of influence that drives you away
from a godly life that God has called
you to that is so much better for you.
That's the picture today.
That's the picture and it's so hard.
But let me tell you this,
and this is critical.
Don't miss this piece.
You know where the enemy is gonna start
working in your life, your weaknesses.
Sometimes we don't even know our
weaknesses until they pop up.
For some of us, it's a relationship.
For some of us it's pornography.
For some of us, it's a substance.
For some of us, it's, it's, it's a past
history of, of abuse and I guess, I
don't know what the story is for you.
. But when that creeps up, it begins to
try to take control because the enemy's
gonna use that to drive a divide between
you and other people and the church
and your relationship with Jesus.
And that is a dangerous place.
But what does he say?
Beware?
Because we can prepare.
We know it's coming.
We know it is coming.
When things are going good or God
wants to do something great, the enemy
wants to come in and try to deceive.
So I wanna give you three things to
pray for during this time of invitation.
This is so critical invitation.
I, I, I wanna explain it this way.
Almost every single week I've been a
part of churches, and this is not a knock
to them, but this is something for me.
I, I want to hear to myself as well.
Invitations not just a ritual we have,
because that's what you do at everything.
End of church, everybody stands, we
have a worship song, and I'm supposed
to close my eyes and think about.
Y'all know what I'm talking about,
and sometimes you're wondering,
what am I supposed to think about?
Invitation is an opportunity to say, Hey,
the word of God has spoke to me today.
It is now time to reflect
and apply that to my life.
And you ask the Lord that
question, what is it that needed
to take from today's word to it?
Apply to my life.
From my benefit and for the
benefit of those around me.
So let me categorize three different
people, and I say three different
people cuz I think there could be nine
different groups of people in here.
But the first group that I really
want to focus on here is as a follower
of Jesus, if you've given your life
to Christ, you love Jesus, you have
committed your life to Christ, but you
still see some of these self-destructive
things in your life, if you see them
today, just, just so you know, today
is the opportunity that God has given.
to overcome that sin, to repent
of it and turn from it today.
Today is the day to move on.
Don't wait till tomorrow, because
that's what the enemy's gonna do.
He's gonna deceive you
to just keep waiting.
Deal with it today, repentance is
on the other side and freedom's
on the other side, right?
God will forgive you.
So during the sum of invitation, I want
you to pray and ask God to forgive you.
If there's something in your heart
as you begin to read over this,
that you need to repent up and turn.
Invite somebody into to maybe help you
be accountable to, I don't know what
it is, but repent and turn from it.
Number two, you may be somebody in
this room that is religious, and as
Paul described it here in verse five,
that you hold a form of godliness,
but you're denying as power.
I don't know if there is, and
I don't know if you're in this
room and I'm not calling you out.
What I'm saying though, that may
be you and if it is you, you know
God's giving you the same invitation
that you can truly turn from your.
And follow after Jesus and accept what I
would love this picture, accept the power
that we receive from a true relationship
with Jesus to overcome our sins.
If you're anything like me, I tried
fighting for a year to become sinless
by myself, and it took one day for me
to pray and say, God, I can't do it for
God to begin to change me in an instant.
Maybe that's you today.
I wanna call you to that.
The last.
Um, it's just somebody who knows.
You walked in the store and
you're like, you know what?
I don't do church.
Never done Jesus.
I don't even know who Jesus is.
Maybe you just don't have a
spiritual background at all.
Maybe that's you.
God's calling you as well to just
give your life to Jesus today.
Repent of your sins.
Turn to him.
I know some of this stuff is hard
for all of us, but I'll just tell
you a relationship with Jesus daily,
personally walking with him is so much.
One than what the world has to
offer than what these sins, the
sins of selfishness have to offer.
So I'm gonna pray for us and then we're
gonna take some time to seek the Lord
and see where our hearts need to be.
Lord Jesus, we just pray, Lord,
that you have, um, spoke to
each one of us and me included.
Lord, I pray that as you bring things
to my remembrance, Lord, that I turn
from them, Lord, that I repent, that
I do not hang out in my sin because
Lord, that sin is not valuable for me.
And Lord, I pray for those in this room.
Who may have been cut to the heart, Lord,
in, in an area of their life that is
not honoring to you, God, just be with
us and, and help us turn from our sins.
But God, I, I really want to even, Lord,
I just wanna speak to those who are
struggling, Lord, in their sin of belief,
Lord, that they may see themselves in a
lot of these different areas and they have
not truly given their lives to you, Lord.
And here is my prayer that.
Today be the day of salvation for
them, Lord, that today they know that
they can repent of their sins, that
they can turn their lives to you,
and that they can begin to experience
the freedom that they have in you.
Lord, if that's that person today, Lord,
and they need to give their lives to
Christ, here's my prayer, Lord, that
I'm gonna be in the back of the room
during this time of invitation and in
the back of the room, Lord, they come
find me and they say, I need Jesus.
Lord.
I'm praying that person
has the boldness today to.
Because everybody here celebrates
salvation and transformation.
So Lord, give them the
boldness to do that.
Lord, give those who are struggling
in sin, the boldness to repent and
turn and ask for forgiveness to
experience the new freedom life, Lord,
that you have for each one of us.
God, we love you, and we thank you
so much for this time of invitation.
Be able to consider the things
that you've taught us today and we
pray this in your heavenly name.
Amen.